Day 1:
    In Day 1, we explore our interest and the company projects like krispcall, dialaxy, tivazo and omni-channel.
    We also got some goddies and account for tracking work progress like tivazo account and krispcall account.
    We also got invited to slack and migadu with the business email.    kiran.khayamali@codavatar.tech
    Also we got our business profile(HRIS) for the mayahold where all the information about us are listed.

Day 2:
    Today we got curriculum to follow during the internship program.
    https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/ for FASTAPI
    I had also relearn basics of python as list, set, tuple and dictionary.
    I had also relearn about the if else statements and loops
    I also relearn about the function and concepts of oop.
    I had also learn about the python type hints, and a little about starlette and pydantic
    I also partake an assesment from the W3schools for the python mastery where i got a score of 28 out of 49, and gotten a skill rating of intermediate.
    FASTAPI was the major learning factor of this intership so i follow the fastapi official document for better understanding.
    I had finish learning about the python types introduction chapter in this day.
    I had also learned and gotten hand experience using interactive API docs and alternative API docs with swagger UI and ReDoc.
    Difference between pip install fastapi and pip install "fastapi[standard]" was also learned in this day.

Day 3:
    In this day, I was getting hands on experience on FastAPI while following the FastAPI document.
    I learned about path parameters, query paramaters and request body mainly in this day.
    I got to learn and try working with python enumeration.
    I learned to validate data with pydantic models and path converter using starlette where path parameter contains another path.
    Query parameters with string validation and Path paramaters with number validation was also experienced.
    I also got hands on multiple query and path paramaters exercise.
    I also learned about the multiple parameter with request body.

Day 4:
    I learned about the the request body with singular values and body fields.
    I also learned about the bodies of pure lists and the error that we got after using def function. I learned why the error occurs, and also solve the error with the async def.
    I also got to know about the quick thumb rule for using function(def and async def).
    I also got to know about other data types execpt the commonly used data types(int, float, str and bool).
    I learned about Cookie and Header parameters and also how they are defined.
    I also tried response model(return type) and response_model.
    I also got to know about Response Status Code.
    I got to know about form data and form model.
    I learned about request files and got familiarized with using request forms and files.
    I also learned about handling errors using FastAPI HTTPException and Starlette HTTPException.

Day 5:
    I learned about dependencies in FastAPI 
    I majorly spends the day learning about security in FastAPI 
    I learned about the types of security used, and flow of security in FastAPI 
    I learned and implemented OAuth2PasswordBearer of FastAPI 
    I learned about JWT and generated for the prototype security system
    I also learned about password hashing and implemented them using "pwdlib[argon2]"
    I also learned about Middleware and implement them
    I also learned about CORS and CORSMiddleware


Day 6:
    Today i relearned about the Git - Version Control(from git docs)
    I learned about the basic workflow of git and checked the usages of the commands in git 
    I also learned about the difference between reset, restore and revert, and when to use what?
    I also relearned the Overview of Git Basic, Git Branch(Merge Vs Rebase) 
    I relearned about Github and Git remote Commands Slides 
    I learned and use Gitlab in this day(Created a new gitlab account)
    I also learned about the difference between HTTPS Vs SSH Key 
    I generated a new SSH Key and used it in both github and gitlab, and test it 

Day 7:
    Today i learned about poetry, installated and initialized project with poetry 
    I also explore the alternative for poetry and pip(uv)
    I also relearned about the GET Request Method Overview 
    I also relearned other HTTP Request Method Overview(like POST, PUT, DELETE)
    I also relearned about PATH and QUERY Parameter Overview
    And Implemented all in one project for books

Day 8:
    Today, I relearned about the Path parameter and Query parameter 
    I learned little more in depth about pydantic and data validation 
    I also relearned about the Fields - Data Validation
    I also relearned about the Status Code and Explicit Status Code Responses
    I also learned about the sqlmodel and connected my FastAPI application with sqlite.
    I worked with multiple models to hide the sensitive data from the user while fetching all the data from the database.

Day 9:
    Today i majorly study about databases and setting up database in Fastapi.
    I relearned about the SQL queries, indexes, relationship, constraints, and many more in database
    I also read the document of sqlalchemy for knowledge of sqlalchemy.
    I also learned about the Database tables(Models) in sqlalchemy
    I setup my fastAPI application with the postgresql database using sqlalchemy as orm 

Day 10:
    Tody i majorly study about the authentication and authorization 
    I also implement authentication file using Router scale 
    I learned more about the relationship in database, How to use Foreign Keys 
    I also added a user authentication for the user in the todo project
    I also used authorization to give what power to the user(update and delete notes)

Day 11:
    Today i learned about the various techniques that can enhance authentication (Like Stronger Security, Multi-Factor Authentication(MFA), Better Token Handling, Smarter Session Control)
    I also learned about the authorization improvements with role-based access control(RBAC)
    I also relearned JWT token in little detailed and implement jwt token and authentication in todo project 
    I also relearned to work with files
    I learned about SQLAlchemy and used to connect to a postgresql database 
    I also learned about boilerplate code and production DBMS

Day 12:
    Today, I relearned about postgresql and some most commonly used postgresql commands 
    I also learned to install postgresql in both windows and mac 
    I learned about Alembic Data Migration Tool in this day.
    I setup Alembic and used it to add new column to users table 
    I also learned about the upgrade and enhancement in application with alembic 
    I learned about Render and how we can deploy our application, and database through render.
    I also relearned docker and applied docker in the todo project 

Day 13:
    Today i explore at my own, i read blog posts, got guidance for learning AWS 
    I also learned and tried boilerplate code from benavlabs(https://github.com/benavlabs/FastAPI-boilerplate.git)
    I explored the boilerplate and got knowledge about the use Redis for caching, rate limiting and tier based user, logging 
    I also learned about FastCRUD which helps to avoid CRUD operation repeatative codes using both crud_router and instance of FastCRUD

Day 14:
    Today i explore different file structure and learned to use them effectively.
    I also learned about the common mistake made during the file structure of a project 
    I also started to build a blog service project with FastAPI 
    I also learned about the difference between DeclarativeBase and declarative_base() 
    I also learned about the difference between using Column and mapped_column 
    I also designed the schema and models for the blog project 

Day 15: 
    Today i continue the blog project from the previous day.
    I also explore the benavlabs boilerplate code for reference and proceed to use refresh token and access token for authentication
    The schema and models are redesigned for easier understanding and less complexity 
    I completed the creation of users and post and also fetching the created users and posts using swagger UI 
    I also configured settings for the project.

Day 16:
    Today i continue the blog project and added pagination.
    I also added login and logout features using the access_token and refresh_token
    I also added some other fetching methods for both users and posts tables 
    I also designed token blacklisting schema and changed verification of token 
    I also implemented token blacklisting to prevent unauthorized access 
    I added author_name to the posts table 
    Some changes in CRUD operation in both user and post to make it eaiser 

Day 17:


