Python Installation and Refreshers
    Introduction to section 
        Python is a popular programming language
        Created by Guido van Rossum and released in 1991
        used for:
            web development(server-side)
            software development
            mathematics
            system scripting
        why python? 
            works on different platform
            similar syntax to english language
            allows to write program with fewer lines than other programming language
            runs on interpreter system, meaning that code can be executed as soon as it is written
            can be treated in procedural, object-oriented and functional way
        python syntax
            similar to english language with influence from mathematics
            uses new lines to complete a command rather than using semicolons or parenthesis
            relies on indentation, using whitespace to define scope, such as the scope of loops, functions and classes
        
Python Installation Overview
    Checking whether python is installed or not
        python --version
    if not installed, download form the official python website:
        https://python.org

Python Setup(Windows) / Python Setup(Mac)
    Python can be installed from the official website of python "python.org" for different operating system. User can download as their needs and install python to their device.

Python Integrated Development Environment Overview (VS Code)
    Software app that help you write, run and debug python code efficiently in one place
    Combination of multiple tools in single interface:
        Code editor
        Python interpreter (to run code)
        Debugger (to find errors)
        File/Project manager
    Popular Python IDEs are:
        Pycharm:
            very powerful and widely used
            great for beginners and professionals
            has free(community) and paid version
        Visual Studio Code:
            lightweight but powerful
            Requires installing python extensions
            very popular among developers
        Jupyter Notebook
            Great for data science and learning
            lets you run code in small blocks(cell)
            supports visualization and notes

Setup Integrated Development Environment(VS Code)
    IDE(VS Code) can be easily downloaded and installed to the device from "code.visualstudio.com/download". User cna choose according to their OS.

Download python refresher source code 
    There are many refresher source code found in online. Some of the commonly used among them are from github, freeCodeCamp, Coursera and W3schools.
    I have watched refresher source code form github with "https://github.com/akb-7/PythonRefresher/", "https://github.com/ehmatthes/pcc_3e" and from W3schools.

Variables in python
    containers for storing data values
    no command for declaring a variables
    created the moment we first assign a value to it.
    no need to declared with particular types, and can even change type after they have been set.
    variables names are case-sensitve.

Comments
    used to explain python code.
    used to make the code more readable.
    used to prevent executiong when testing code.
    starts with a #, and python will ignore them.
    can be placed at the end of the line, and python will ignore the rest of the line.
    doesn't have to be text that explains the code, can also be used to prevent python from executing code.
    doesn't really have syntax for multi-line comment. or not quite as intended, we can use multi-line string. Since, Python will ignore string literals that are not assigned to a variable, we can add a multi-line string(triple quotes) in our code and place our comment in it. 

Python Collections (Arrays)
    There are four collection data types in the Python programming language:
        List is a collection which is ordered and changeable. Allows duplicate members.
        Tuple is a collection which is ordered and unchangeable. Allows duplicate members.
        Set is a collection which is unordered, unchangeable*, and unindexed. No duplicate members.
        Dictionary is a collection which is ordered** and changeable. No duplicate members.

Getting Started with FASTAPI
    What is FastAPI?
        mordern, fast(high-performance), web framework for building APIs with python based on standard python type hints.
        Key features:
            Fast: Very high performance, on par with NodeJS and GO(thanks to Starlette and Pydantic)
            Fast to cod: Increase the speed to develop features by about 200% to 300%
            Fewer bugs: Reduce about 40% of human(developers) induced errors
            Intuitive: Great editor support, Completion everywhere, less time debugging
            Easy: Designed to be easy to use and learn, less time reading documents
            Short Minimize code duplication, Multiple features from each parameter duplication, Fewer bugs
            Robust: Get production-ready code, with automatic interactive documentation
            Standard-based: Based on(and fully compatible with) the open standards for APIs: OpenAPI(previously known as swagger) and JSON schema
        FastAPI stands on the shoulder of giants:
            Starlette for the web parts 
            Pydantic for the data parts
        
Installing FastAPI and virtual enviroment installation (Window, Mac and Linux)
    Setting up virtual environment 
        python -m venv venv 
        the above code snippet is written as CLI in the terminal of the project directory. Then
        ".\venv\Scripts\activate" for windows and "source venv/bin/activate" for MacOS and Linux to start or activate the virtual environment.
        pip freeze or pip list can be used to see the installed package in the virtual enviroment
    Installation of FastAPI can be done in 2 ways;
        pip install fastapi 
            This install only the core FastAPI package:
                includes the main frameworks
                depends on essentials like Starlette and Pydantic
                doesnot include extras for running a full production application
                we will need to manually install things like:
                    ASGI server (eg: Uvicorn)
                    Performance tools
                    Optinoal features
        pip install "fastapi[standard]"
            This install fastAPi plus a bundle of commonly used extras
            The [standard] extra typically includes:
                Uvicorn (to run our application)
                Uvloop (faster async performance, Unix only)
                httptools (better performance)
                python-multipart (for file uploads)
                jinja2 (if we use templates)
            In short, it gives us a ready to run, production-friendly setup without installing each piece manually
        When to use which?
            If we want full control over dependencies and are building minimal or custom setup using fastapi is enough.
            If we want to start quickly and are building a typical weh API using fastapi[standard] is prefered.

interactive API docs 
    ".../docs" can be used to see the automatice interactive API documentation(provided by swagger UI)
    ".../redoc" can be used to see the alternative automatic documentation(provided by ReDoc)

Recap of FastAPI
    declared once the types of parameters, body etc as function parameters
    we do that with standard mordern python types
    don't need to learn new syntax, methods or classes of a specific libary, etc.
    just standard python. For eg--> item_id: int for an integer and item_id: Item for complex item model
    with that single declaration, we get:
        Editor support, including:
            Completion
            Type Checks
        Validation of data:
            Automatic and clear errors when data is invalid
            validation even for deeply nested JSON object
        Conversion of input data: coming from the network to python data and types. Reading from:
            JSON
            path parameters
            Query parameters
            Cookies
            Headers
            Forms
            Files
        Conversion of output data: converting from python data and types to network data(as JSON)
            Convert Python types(str, int, float, bool, list, etc)
            datetime objects
            UUID objects
            Database models
            ... and many more
        Automatic interactive API documentation, including 2 alternative user interface:
            Swagger UI and ReDoc

Dependencies 
    FastAPI depends on Pydantic and Starlette
    Standard dependencies
        when we install fastapi with pip install "fastapi[standard]", it comes with the standard group of optional dependencies
    used by Pydantic
        email-validator --> for email validation
    used by Starlette
        httpx --> Required if we want to use the TestClient
        Jinga2 --> Required if we want to use the default template configuration
        python-multipart --> Required if we want to support form "parsing", with request.form()
    used by FastAPI
        uvicorn --> for the server that loads and serves our application. THis include uvicor[standard] which includes (eg: uvloop) needed for high performance serving
        fastapi-cli[standard] --> to provide the fastapi command
            this include fastapi-cloud-cli, which allows us to deploy out fastapi-application to fastapi cloud

GET and PUT 
    GET: Retrieve data from the server(read-only)
    PUT: Update or replace an existing resources

JSON Format
    represents data in structured, text-based format that is easy for humans to read and machines to parse(breaking down something into smaller parts and understand how those parts are structured)
    Data in key-value pairs 
    Keys must be in string(in double quotes)
    JSON Resopnse: data returned by an API in JSON(JavaScript Object Notation) format
    In fastAPI, we don't need to manually create JSON responses, fastapi automatically converts python data into JSON 

What is uvicorn?
    a fast ASGI server used to run python web application like those built with FastAPI
    a server that runs our FastAPI application
    without uvicorn, our FastAPI code won't actually be accessible in browser or via API calls
    Why uvicorn is needed?
        when we write a FastAPI application, we're just defining routes and logic.
        Uvicorn:
            starts a web server
            Listens for incoming request(Like GET/POST)
            sends responses back to the client 
    What is ASGI(Asynchronous Server Gateway Interface)?
        supports async/await
        handles many request efficiently
        mordern alternative to WSGI(used by older frameworks)
    Runs using: uvicorn main:app --reload or fastapi dev main.py 
        main: our file name 
        app: FastAPI instance
        --reload: auto restarts server when code changes

Python Hint Types 
    Python type hint's Introduction
        python has support for optional "type hints"(also known as "type annotations")
        These "type hints" or annotations are a special syntax that allows declaring the type of a variable 
        By declaring types for our variables, editors and tools can give us better support
        FastAPI is all based on these type hints, they give it many advantages and benefits.
        Type hints are mainly declared as the function parameter.
    Type hints in FastAPI
        FastAPI takes advantages of these type hints to do several things
        with FastAPI, we declare parameters with type hints and we get:
            Editor support 
            Type check 
        ___ and FastAPI uses the same declaration to :
            Define requirements: from request path parameters, query parameters, headers, bodies, dependencies, etc.
            Convert data: from request to required type
            validate data: coming from each request
                Generating automatic errors returned to the client when the data is invalid
            Document the API using OpenAPI
                which is then used by the automatic interactive documentation user interfaces.

Concurrency and async/await
    Concurrency is the concept of dealing with multiple tasks at once. It doesn't neccessarily means they are being executed at the exact time but rather, they are managed in a overlapping manners. Threads and coroutines are used to achieve concurrency.
    async/await are keywords used in python to handle asynchronous programming. This allows the program to perform other tasks while waiting for long-running tasks(like network calls or file I/O) to complete, instead of blocking the whole process.
    async: Marks a functions as asynchronous, meaning it can be paused and resumed later.
    await: Used to call an asynchronous function and tells python to "pause" and wait for that function to finish without blocking the rest of the code.
    Key difference between concurrency and parallelism 
        concurrency: managing multiple tasks at once(task may or may not run at the same time)
        parallelism: Actually running multiple tasks simultaneously(requires multiple CPU cores or threads)
    Use of async/await 
        If we are using third party libaries that tell us to call them with await. Then, declare our path operation function with async function with async def 
        If we are using third party libaries that communicates with something(like database, an API, the file systme, etc) and doesn't have support for using await, then declare our path operation functions as normally with just def 
        If our application(somehow) doesn't have to communicates with anything else and wait for it to respond, use async def, even in case of no usage of await inside
        (Note: We can only use await inside async functions)
    
    Starlette and FastAPI are based on AnyIO which makes it compatible with both python standard libary asyncio and trio.
    AnyIO can be used directly for our advanced concurrency use cases that require more advanced patterns in our code.
    with the use of AnyIO, we can write our own async application without using FastAPI.
    Coroutine is just the very fancy term for the thing returned by an async def function
    Mordern versions of python support for "asynchronous code" using something called "coroutines", with async and await syntax.

Environment Variables
    variable that live outside the python code in the operating system, and could be read by our python code.

OpenAPI 
    FastAPI generates a "schema" with all our API using the OpenAPI standard for defining APIs.
    A "schema" is a definition or description of something. Not the code that implements it, but just an abstract description
    API schemas definition includes our API paths, the possible parameter they take etc.
    Data schemas refers to the shape of some data, like JSON content(JSON attributes, and datatypes)
    "___/openapi.json" can be used to check hte json content for the APIs.
    uv can be consider to used instead of pip for package installer and manager, as uv is 10-100x times faster than pip.

Importing FastAPI: from fastapi import FastAPI
Creating FastAPI instance: app = FastAPI()
URL(Uniform Resource Locator)
    is the address used to access a resource on the web
    structure of URL: schema://domain:port/path?query#fragments
        Schema: defines the protocols used to access resource
            Example: http, https, ftp ----> https://
        Domain(Host): Human-readable name that identifies the server where the resource is hosted
            Example: www.example.com 
        Port(optional): Numbers that identifies the specific service on the server to connect to. If not specified, the default port for the schema is used.
            Example: 80 for HTTP; :443 for HTTPS 
        Path: Specific location of resource on the server 
            Example: /blog/article 
        Query(optional): Provides additional data to the server, typically in form of key-value pairs.
            Example: ?search=python&limit=5
        Fragment(optional): Reference to a specific section of the resource(often a specific part of a webpage)
            Example: #section1  or #comments 

What is decorator?
    @something syntax in python is called "decorator"
    we put it on top of function, like a pretty decorative had(that's where the term came from)
    Takes the function below and does something with it.
    In case of FastAPI, the decorator tells that the function below corresponds to the path "/path_routes" with an operation "HTTP_methods".
    It is called as the path operation decorator.

Path Parameters 
    We can declare path "parameter" or "variables" with the same syntax used by python format string.
        Example: ".../items/{item_id}"
            async def eg_function(item_id):
                pass 
    
Path Parameters with types 
    We can declare the type of a path parameter in the function, using standard python type annotations.
        Example: ".../items/{item_id}"
            async def eg_function(item_id: int):
                pass 

Pydantic 
    all the data validation is performed under the hood by pydantic, so we get all the benefits from it.

Working with Python enumeration
    we use enum for the predefined values
    for the use, we first of all create a enum class by importing enum and create a sub class that inherits from str and from enum 
    by inheriting form str the API docs will be able to know that the values must be of type string and will be able to render correctly.
    Then we create class attributes with fixed values, which will be the available valid values.
    The value of the path parameter will be an enumeration member.
    Compare enumeration member: We can compare it with the enumeration member in our created enum class.
    We can get actual value using "parameter.value"(parameter = enum_member)

Path parameters containing path
    a path operation with a path ".../files/{file_path}"
    file_path itself contain a path "/home/file.txt"
    So, the URL would be ".../files/home/file.txt"
    OpenAPI doesn't support a way to declare a path parameter containing a path inside as it could lead to scenarios that are difficult to test and run.
    Nevertheless, we can still do it in FastAPI using internal tools from Starlette.
    path converter (from Starlette):
        using an option directly from Starlette we can declare a path parameter containing a path using URL likes ".../files/{fie_path: path}"

Query Parameters
    When we declare other function parameters that are not part of the path parameters, they are automatically interpreted as "query parameter"
    The query is the set of key-value pairs that go after the ? in URL, seperated by & characters.
        Example: https://127.0.0.1/items?skip=2&limit=10 

    Multiple path and query parameter
        We can declare multiple path parameters and query parameters at the same time, FastAPI knows which is which.
        We don't have to declare them in any specific order. They will be detected by name.
        I had got experiences using this on starting.py.

Request Body 
    When we need to send data from client(let's say, a browser) to our API, we send it as a request body.
    A request body is data sent by the client to our API. A response body is the data our API sends to the client.
    Our API almost always has to send a response body, but client doesn't necessarily have to send request body.
    To declare a request body, we use Pydantic models with all their power and benefits.
    To send data, we should use one of the POST(the most common), PUT, DELETE, PATCH
    Sending a request body with a GET request has an undefined behaviour, nevertheless, it is supported by FastAPI, only for very complex/extreme use cases.

Query Parameters and String Validations
    FastAPI allows us to declare additional information and validation for our parameters.
    = None shows that default query is None so, FastAPI will know it's not reqiured and othe types hints like str and None helps to get better support and detect errors.
    For additional string validations:
        Example: Length doesn't exceed 50 characters
            First of all import Query from fastapi and Annotated from typing
            q: Annotated[str | None, Query(max_length = 50)] = None  or q: str | None = Query(default=None, max_length=50) is used in older codebase
            FastAPI will now:
                validate the data making sure that max length is 50 characters.
                shows clear error for the client when the data is not valid. 
                Document the parameter in OpenAPI schema path operation(so it will show up in the automatic docs UI)
            Using Annotated is recommended instead of the default value in function parameters, it is better in multiple reasons:
                The default value of the function parameter is the actual default value, that's more intuitve with python in general.
                We could call the same function in other places without FastAPI, and it would work as expected. If there's a required parameter(without a default value), our editor will let us know with an error, Python will also complain if we run it without passing the required parameter.
                When we don't use Annotated, And instead use the (old) defauld value style. If we call that function without FastAPI in other places, we have to pass the arguments to the function for it to work correctly, otherwise the values be different from what we expect(eg: QueryInfo or something similar instead of str). And our editor won't complain, and python won't complain running that function, only when the operation inside error out.

Request Body with Singular values
    Body() can be used to force a parameter to come from request body(not from query parameters)
    Body(min_length=3, max_length=30) can be used for adding validation or metadata.
    Body() is a helper that lets us:
        explicitly mark data as coming from request body 
        validate and constrain input 
        customize API documentation 
        control JSON structure(like embedding)

Body Fields 
    Field works the same ways as Query, Path and Body, it has all the same parameters, etc
    Actually, Query, Path and others are the sub classes of a common Param class, which is itself a subclass of pydantic's FieldInfo class.
    And Pydantic's Field returns an instance of FieldInfo as well.
    Body also returns objects of sub class of FieldInfo directly. Remeber that when we import Query, Path and others from fastapi, those are actually functions that returns special classes. 

Bodies of pure lists 
    When i tried to post a list of image using(def func(images: list[Image])), it showed "{detail: "Not Found"}" error. This error was showcased because FastAPI reads the body using Starlette's sync request parsing, which block the event loop while reading JSON, So it doesn't parse the body properly in case of large JSON arrays.
    Then i tried using async and it works reliably, because FastAPI awaits the JSON parsing properly.
    Why async def fixes it?
        FastAPI internally calls await request.json() when parameter type is complex(Like list[Image]).
        If our endpoint is sync, it uses a "sync wrapper" around request.json() -> may fails on lists at top-level or with certain clients(Postman sometimes triggers this).
        If our endpoint is async, FastAPI directly awaits the body parsing, so it works reliably.
    Quick rule of Thumb:
        Use asunc def when our endpoint:
            Accepts raw lists or large JSON bodies 
            Uses nested models
            Might perform I/O operations later 
        Use def for simple, small, synchronous endpoint 

(Note: * on def func(*, user_id: int = ...) helps to force user_id to be keyword-only. without *, Python would allow us to accidentallu call it. with *, client request /users/123/ , FastAPI matches 123->user_id, so we con't call read_user(123))

Extra Data Types
    up to now we had been using common data tyoes like int, float, str, bool but we can also use more complex data types. 
    Here are some of the additional data types:
        UUID (Universally Unique Identifier)
            common as in ID in many database and system 
            In requests and response will be represented as str 
        datetime.datetime
            A python datetime.datetime 
            In request and responses will be represented as a str in ISO 8601 format, like 2026-03-26T10:09:00+5:45
        datetime.date 
            In request and response will be represented as str in ISO 8601 format like 2026-03-26
        datetime.time 
            In request and response will be represented as str in ISO 8601 format like 10:11:32:007 
        datetime.timedelta
            In requests and response will be represented as a float of total seconds. 
            Pydantic also allows representing it as "ISO 8601 time diff encoding"
        frozenset
            In requests and responses, treated the same as set 
                In request, a list will be read, eliminating duplicates and converting it to a set.
                In responses, the set will be converted to a list.
                The genereated schema will specify that the set values are unique(using JSON schema's unique Items)
        bytes
            standard python bytes 
            In requests and respones will be treated as str 
            The genrated schema that it's a str with binary "format".
        Decimal 
            standard python decimal 
            In request and responses, handled the same as float 
        There are also many other tyoes of valid Pydantic data types.

Cookie Parameters 
    We can define cookie parameter the same way as we define Query and Path parameters 
    Cookie is a "sister" class of path and query. It also inherits from the same common Param class. 
    To declare cookies, we need to use Cookie, because otherwise the parameter would be interpreted as query parameters. 
    As browser handle cookies in special ways and behind the scenes, they don't easily allow JavaScript to touch them.

Header Parameters 
    we can define header parameters the same way as we define path, query and cookie parameters.
    similar to cookies; ie "sister" class of path and query amd tp declare hearder we need to use Header, otherwise the parameters would be interpreted as query parameters.
    Header has a little extra functionality on top of what path. query and cookie provide.
    Most of the standard header are separated by a "hyphen" character also known as the "minus symbol"(-).
    But vairable like "variable-name" is invalid in python.
    so, by default, Header will convert the parameters names characters from underscore(_) to hyphen(-) to extract and document the headers.
    Also HTTP headers are case sensitive, so we can declare them with python style(also known as snake_case).
    So, we can use user_agent as we normally would in python code, instead of needing to capitalize the first letters as User_Agent or something similar.
    If for some reason we need to disable automatic conversion of underscores to hyphens, set the paramet convert_underscores of Header to False>(Before setting convert_underscores to False, bear in mind that some HTTP proxies and servers disallow the usage of header with underscores)

Duplicate Headers 
    It is possible to receive duplicate headers. That means, the same header with multiple values.
    We can define those cases using a list in the type declaration.
    we will receive all the values from the duplicate header as a python list.

Response Model: Return Type 
    We can declare the type used for the response by annotating the path operation function return type 
    We can use type annotations the same way we would for input data in function parameters, we can use pydantic models, lists, dictionaries, scalar values like integers, boolean, etc.
        Example : async def func(item: Item) -> Item: or async def func(item: Item) -> list[Item]:
    FastAPI will use this return type to:
        Validate the returned data 
            If the data is invalid(eg: we are missing a field), it means that our application code is broken, not returning what it should, and it will return server error instead of returning incorrect data. This way we and our clients can be certain that they will receive the data and the data shape expected.
        Add a JSON Schema for the response in the OpenAPI path operations 
            This will be used by automatic docs 
            It will also be used by automatice client code generation tools. 
        Serialize the returned data to JSON using pydantic, which is written in Rust, so it will be much faster.
        But most importantly:
            It will limit and filter the output data to what is defined in the return type.
                This is particularly important for security.
            
response_model 
    response_model is used as the parameter of get, post methods(ie decorators).
    response_model is more prioritized than return type.
    response_model or return type:
        In the case of different models, if we annotate the function return type as UseOut, the editor and tools would complain that we are returning an invalid type, as those are different classes.
        That's why in this cases we have to declare it in the response_model parameter.

Response Status Code 
    The same way we can specify a response model, we can also declare the HTTP status code used for the response with the parameter status_code in any or the path operations.
        Example: @app.post("/items/", status_code=201)
    status_code is a parameter of the "decorators" method(get,post,etc), Not of our path operation functions, like all the parameter and the body.
    The status_code parameter receive a number with the HTTP status code.
    About HTTP status code
        200 is the default status code, which means everthing was "OK".
        201, "Created". It is commonly used after creating a new record in the database 
        204, "No Content". This response is used when ther is no content to return to the client, and so the response must not have a body.
        400 is used for generic errors from the client 
        404 for a "Not Found" response 
        500-599 are for server error. 500 is normally used for internal server error.

Form Data (encoded using "media type" application X-waveform-urlencoded)
    When we need to, receive form fields instead of JSON, we can use Form (import Form from fastapi )
    Create form parameter the same way we would for Body or Query 
    An example, in one of the ways the OAuth2 specification can be used(called "password flow") it is required to send username and password as form fields
    The spec requires the fields to be exactly name username and password , and to be sent as form fields, not JSON 
        with Form we can declare the same config as with Body(and Query, Path, Cookie), including validation
        Example: an alias(eg: user_name instead of username), etc.

Form Model 
    we can also use pydantic models to declare form fields in FastAPI
    we just need to declare a pydantic model with the field we want to receive as form fiels and the declare the parameter as form 
    FastAPI will extract the data for each field from the form data in the request and give us the pydantic model we defined 

(Note: model_config = {"extra": "forbid"} is used to forbid entry of parameter except the listed attributes in pydantic models)

Request Files 
    we can define files to be uploaded by the client using File
    import File and UploadFile from fastapi 
    Create file parameter the same way we would for Body or Form 
    File is a class that inherits directly from Form 
    The files will be uploaded as "form data" 
    If we declare the type of our path operation function parameter as bytes , FastAPI will read the file for us and we will receive the contents as bytes. 
    The whole content will be stored in memory so it will only work for small files
    But there are several cases in which we might benefits from UploadFile
    Using UploadFile has several advantages over bytes:
        we don't have to use File() in the default value of parmeter 
        It uses a "spooled" file 
            A file stored in memory up to maximum size limit, and after passing the limit it will be stored in disk 
        This means that it will work well for large files like image , videos, large binaries, etc. without consuming all the memory. 
            We can get metadata from the uploaded file 
            It has file-like async interface 
    UploadFile has following attributes:
        filename: A str with original file name that was uploaded(eg: image.jpg) 
        content_type: A str with the content-type(MIME type, media type) (eg: image/jpeg) 
        file: A Spooled Temporary File(as FIle-like object) that we can pass directly to other functions or libaries that exxpects a "file-like" objects 
    UploadFile has following async methods:
        write(data): Write data(str or bytes) to the file 
        read(size): Reads size(int) bytes/characters of the file 
        seek(offset): Goes to the byte position offset(int) in the file 
            Example: await myfile.seek(0) would go to start of the file 
        close(): closes the file 

Request Form and Files 
    We can define files and form fields at the same time using File and Form 

Handling Errors 
    There are many situations in which we need to notify an error to a client that is using our API 
    This client could be browser with a frontend, a code from someone else, an IoT device, etc
    we could need to tell the client that: 
        The client doesn't have enough privilege for that operation 
        The client doesn't have access to that resource 
        The item client was trying to access doesn't exists, etc 
    In these cases, we normally return a HTTP status code in range of 400-499. This is similar to HTTP status codes in range of 200-299 in case of "success" in the request(Status code 200)

    Using HTTPExecption(Raising an HTTPExecption) 
        HTTPExecption is a normal python execption with additional data relevent for APIs, because it's a python execption, we don't return it, we raise it 
        The benefits of raising an execption over returning a value is because of dependencies and security 

    FastAPI's HTTPExecption Vs Starlette's HTTPExecption
        FastAPI has its own HTTPExecption, and FastAPI's HTTPExecption error class inherits from starlette's HTTPExecption error class 
        The only difference is that FastAPI's HTTPExecption accepts any JSON-able data for the detail field, while starlette's HTTPExecption only accepts string for it 
        So, we can keep raising FastAPI's HTTPExecption as normally in our code 
        But when we register a execption handler we should register it for starlette's HTTPExecption 
        This way, if any part of Starlette's internal code or a starlette extension or plug-in, raises a Starlette HTTPExecption our handler will be able to catch and handle it 

Dependencies
    FastAPI has a very powerful but intuitive Dependency Injection System 
    Designed to be very simple to use, and to make it very easy for any developer to integrate other components with FastAPI 
    
    What is Dependency Injection?
        It means, in programming, that is a way for our code to declare things that it requires to work and use "dependencies"
        And then, that system(ie FastAPI) will take care of doing whatever is needed to provide our code with those needed dependencies("inject" the dependencies)
        This is very useful when we need to 
            have shared logic(the same code logic again and again)
            share database connections
            enforce security, authentication role requirements etc
        All these, while minimizing code repetition 
    
    How Dependency Injection works?
        Create a dependency or dependable 
            Dependecy or dependable is a function that can take all the same parameters that a path operation function can take 
            Import Depends from fastapi 
        Declare the dependency, in the "dependent" 
            The same way we use Body, Query, etc with our path operation function parameters, use Depends with new parameter. We only give a single parameter. This parameter must be something like function. We don't call it directly, so there is no need of parenthesis'()' at the end.

    FastAPI Compatibility
        The simplicity of the dependency injection system makes FastAPI compatible with 
            all the relational databases 
            NoSQL database
            external packages 
            external APIs 
            authentication and authorization systems 
            API usage monitoring systems 
            response data injection systems, etc 
        
    Class as Dependencies
        The key factor is that a dependency should be a "callable"
        In python, a class is also a "callable"
        So, in FastAPI, we could use a python class as dependency 
        What FastAPI actually checks is that it is a "callable"(function, class or anything else) and the parameters defined
        If we pass a "callable" as a dependency in FastAPI it will analyze the parameters for that "callable", and process them in the same way as the parameters for a path operation function(including sub-dependencies)
        That also applies to callable with no params at all. The same as it would be for path operation functions with no parameters 
        By using instances as the parameter dependency would be called 

    Sub Dependencies
        We can create dependencies that have sub-dependencies 
        They can be as deep as we need them to be 
        FastAPI will take care of solving them 
    
    Dependencies in path operation decorators 
        In some cases we don't really need the return value of a dependency inside our path operation function(error handling dependencies) 
        Or the Dependecy doesn't return a value but, we still need it to be executed/solve 
        For those cases, instead of declaring a path operation function parameter with Depends, we can add a list of dependencies to the path operation decorator 
        path operation decorator receives an optional argument dependencies 
        These dependencies will be executed/solved the same way as normal dependencies, But their vaule(if they return any) won't be passed to our path operation function

    Global Dependencies 
        For some types of applications we might want to add dependencies to the whole application 
        Similar to the way, we can add dependencies to the path operation decorators, we can add them to the FastAPI application 
        In this case, they will be applied to all the path operations in the application 

    Dependenies with yield 
        FastAPI supports dependencies that do some extra steps after finishing 
        To do this, we use yield instead of return, and write the extra steps(code) after 
        Make sure to use yield one single time per dependency 
        Example: 
            async def get_db():
                db = DBSession()
                try:   
                    yield db 
                finally:
                    db.close()
            A database dependency with yield:
                We could use this to create a database session and close it after finishing
                Only the code prior to and including the yield statement is executed before creating a response 
                The yielded value is what is injected into path operations and other dependencies
                The code following yield statement is executed after the response 

Security 
    There are many ways to handle security, authentication, and authorization 
    And it normally is a complex and "difficult" topic 
    In many frameworks and systems just handling security and authentication tasks takes a big amount of efforts and code(in many cases can be 50% or more of all the code written)
    FastAPI provides several tools to help us deal with security easily, rapidly in a standard way without having to study and learn all the security specifications.

    OAuth2
        OAuth2 is a specification that defines several ways to handle authentication and authorization
        It is quite an extensive specification and covers several complex use cases 
        It includes ways to authenticate using a "third party" 
        That's what all the systems with "login with Facebook, Google, X(Twitter), Github" use underneath 

    OAuth1 
        There was an OAuth1, which is very different from OAuth2 and more complex, as it included direct specifications on how to encrypt the communication.
        It is not very popular nowadays
        OAuth2 doesn't specify how to encrypt the communication, it expects us to have our application served with HTTPS 
    
    OpenID Connect 
        OpendID Connect is another specification, based on OAuth2 
        It just extends OAuth2 specifying some things that are relatively ambiguous in OAuth2 to try to make it more interoperable 
        For example, Google login uses OpenID Connect(which underneath uses OAuth2)
        But Facebook login doesn't support OpenID Connect. It has its own flavor of OAuth2 

    OpenID (not "OpenID Connect")
        There was also an "OpenID" specificatino that tried to solve the same thing as OpenID Connect, but was not based on OAuth2 
        So, it was a complete additional system 
        It is not very popular or used nowadays 

    OpenAPI 
        OpenAPI(previously known as Swagger) is the open specification for building APIs(now part of the Linux Foundation)
        FastAPI is based on OpenAPI 
        That's what makes it possible to have multiple automatic interactive document interfaces, code generation etc. 
        OpenAPI has a way to define multiple security "schemes"
        By using them, we can take advantages of all these standard based tools, including these interactive documentation systems 
        OpenAPI defines the following security scheme  
            "apikey": ann application specific key that can comed from 
                A query parameter
                A header 
                A cookie 
            http: standard HTTP authentication system, including 
                bearer: a header Authorization with a value of Bearer plus a token. This is inherited from OAuth2 
                HTTP Basic Authentication 
                HTTP Digest etc 
            oauth2: all the OAuth2 ways to handle security(called "Flow")
                several of these flows are appropriate for building an OAuth2.0 authentication provider(like Google, Facebook, X(Twitter), Github, etc)
                    implicit 
                    client credentials
                    authorization code 
                But there is one specific "flow" that can be perfectly used for handling authentication in the same application directly:
                    password 
            OpenID Connect: has a way to define how to discover OAuth2 authentication data automatically 
                This automaic discovery is what is defined in OpenID Connect specification 

    Flow of Security
        To have a way for frontend to authenticate with the backend, using a username and password 
        we can use OAuth2 to build that with FastAPI 
        The password flow: 
            The password "flow" is one of the ways ("flows") defined in OAuth2, to handle security and authentication 
            OAuth2 was designed so that the backend or API could be independent of the servers that authenticates the user 
            But in this case, the same FastAPI application will handle the API and the authentication 
            So, lets review it from the simplified point of view: 
                The user types the username and password in the frontendm, and hits Enter     
                The frontend(running in the user's browser) sends that username and password to a specific URL in our API(declared with tokenUrl = "token")
                The API check that username and password, and responds with a "token"  
                    A "token" is just a string with some content that we can use later to verify the user 
                    Normally, a token is set to expire after some time 
                        So, the user will have to login again at some point later 
                        And if token is stolen, the risk is less, It is not like a permanent key that will work forever(in most of the cases) 
                The frontend store that token temporarily somewhere 
                The user clicks in the frontend to go to anoter section of the frontend web app 
                The frontend needs to fetch some more data from the API 
                    But it needs authentication for that specific endpoint 
                    So, to authenticte with out API, it sends a header Authorization with a value of Bearer plus the token 
                    If the token contains Kiran, the content of the Authorization header would be Bearer Kiran 

    (Note: tokenUrl refers to relative URL token as it's a relative URL, it's equivalent to "./token")

    FastAPI's OAuth2 Password Bearer 
        FastAPI provides several tools, at different levels of abstraction, to implement these security features 
        A "bearer" token is not the only option, But it's the best one for our normal use case 
        And It might be the best for most use cases, unless, someone is an OAuth2 expert and know exactly why theres another option that better suits their needs 
        In that case, FastAPI also provide them with tools to build it 

    Code Size 
        We are mixing security, data models, utility functions and path operations in the same file
        But here's the key point, the security and dependency injection stuff is written once 
        And we can make it as complex as we want, and still, have it written only once in single place with all the flexibility 
        But we can have thousands of endpoints(path operations) using the same security system and all of them(or any portion of them that we want) can take advantage of re-using these dependencies or any other dependencies we create, and all these thousands of path operations can be as small as 3 lines 

    Simple OAuth2 with Password and Bearer 
        We are going to use FastAPI security utilities to get the username and password 
        OAuth2 specifies that when using the "password flow"(that we are using) the client/user must sent a username and password fields as form data 
        And the specifications says that the fields have to be named like that. So, user-name or email wouldn't work 
        But we can show it as we wish to our final users in the frontend and our database models can use any other names we want 
        But for login path operation, we need to use these names to be compatible with the specifications(and to be able to use the integrated API documentation system)
        The specification also state that the username and password must be sent as form data(so, no JSON here)
    
        Scope 
            The specification also says that the client can send another form field "scope"
            The form field name is scope(in singular), but it is actually a long string with "scopes" seperated by spaces 
            Each "scopes" is just a string(without spaces) 
            They are normally used to declare specific security permissions, for example:
                users.read or user.write are common examples 
                instagram_basic is used by Facebook/Instagram 
                https://www.googleapis.com/auth/drive is used by Google 
            In OAuth2 a "scope" is just a string that declares a specific permission required 
            It doesn't matter if it has other characters like ":" or if it is a URL 
            Those details are implemenation specific. FOr OAuth2 they are just strings
                OAuth2 PasswordRequestForm is a class dependency that declares a form body with:
                    The username 
                    The password 
                    An optional scope field as a big string, composed of string seperated by spaces
                    An optional grant_type 
                    An optional client_id 
                    An optional client_secret 
                By the specification, we should return a JSON with an access_token and a token_type 
                This is something that we have to do ourself in our code, and make sure we use those JSON keys 
                It's almost the only thing that we have to remember to correctly, to be compliant with the specification 
                For the rest, FastAPI handles it for us 

    OAuth2 with Password(and Hashing), Bearer with JWT Tokens
        Now, we have all the security flow, let's make the application actually secure, using JWT tokens and secure password hashing 
        This code is something we can actually use in out application, save the password hashes in our database, etc 

    About JWT 
        JWT means "JSON Web Tokens"
        It's a standard to codify a JSON object in a long dense string without spaces. It looks like a compact string dump 
        It is not encrypted, so anyone could recover the information from the contents 
        But its signed, so when we receive a token that we emitted, we can verify that we actually emitted it 
        That way, we can create a token with an expiration of let's say 1 week and then whe the users comes back the next day with the token, we know that user is still logged in to our system 
        After a week, the token will be expired and the user will not be authorized and will have to sign in again to get a new token and if the user(or a third party) tried to modify the token to change the expiration, we would be able to discover it, because the signature would not match 
    
    Password Hashing 
        "Hashing" means converting some content(a password) into a sequence of bytes(just a string) that looks like glibberish 
        Whenever we pass exactly the same content(exactly the same password) we get exactly the same glibberish 
        But we cannot convert from the glibberish back to password 

        Why use password hashing?
            If our database is stolen, the thief won't have our user's plaintext passwords only the hashes 
            So, the thief won't be able to try to use that password in another system (as many users use the same password everywhere, this would be dangerous)
            Install pwdlib 
                pwdlib is a great python package to handle password hashes 
                It supports many secure hashing algorithm and utilities to work with them 
                The recommended algorithm is "Argon2"
                with pwdlib, we could even configure it be able to read Django, a Flask security plug-in or many others 
                so, we would be able to, for example, share the same data from a Django application in a database with a FastAPI application. Or gradually migrate a Django application using the same database 
                And our users would be able to login from our Django application of from our FastAPI application at same time 
        
        Hash and verify the passwords 
            Import the tools we need from pwdlib
            Create a PasswordHash instance with reccommended setting it will be used for hashing and verifying passwords 
            pwdlib also supports the bcrypt hashing algorithm but doesn't include legacy algorithms for working with outdated hashes. It is recommended to use the passlib libary 

    JWT implementation
        Install and Import pwdlib 
            pip install "pwdlib[argon2]"
        Hash and verify the password using pwdlib 
            Create a utility function to hash a password coming from the user 
            and another utility function to verify if a received password matches the hash stored 
            and another one to authenticate and return user 
        Handle JWT Tokens 
            Import the modules installed 
            Create a random secret key that will be used to sign the JWT tokens 
                -openssl rand -hex 32 
            and copy the output to the variable SECRET_KEY 
            Create a variable ALGORITHM with the algorithm used to sign the JWT Token and set it to "HS256"(symmetric signing algorithm used for single SECRET_KEY, "RS256" an asymmetric signing algorithm is used when we have a private and public key)
            Create a variable for expiration of token 
            Define a pydantic model that will be used in the token endpoint for the response 
            Create a utility function to generate a new access token 
        Update the dependencies
            Update get_current_user to receive the same token as before, But this time using JWT tokens
            Decode the received token, verify it and return the current user 
            If the token is invalid, return an HTTP error right away 
        Update the /token path operations
            Create a time delta with the expiration time of token 
            Createa a real JWT access token and return it 

    

                

        